@node    References, Exercises, 5.5, Top
@unnumbered Tài Liệu Tham Khảo

@anchor{Abelson et al. 1992}
Abelson, Harold, Andrew Berlin, Jacob Katzenelson, William McAllister,
Guillermo Rozas, Gerald Jay Sussman, and Jack Wisdom. 1992.  The Super@-com@-pu@-ter
Tool@-kit: A general framework for special-purpose com@-pu@-ting.
@cite{In@-ter@-na@-tio@-nal Journal of High-Speed Electronics} 3(3): 337-361.
@url{http://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/94/HPL-94-30.html, –›}

@anchor{Allen 1978}
Allen, John.  1978.  @cite{Anatomy of Lisp}. New York: McGraw-Hill.

@anchor{ANSI 1994}
@abbr{ANSI} @abbr{X}3.226-1994. @cite{American National Standard for Information
Systems---Programming Language---Common Lisp}.

@anchor{Appel 1987}
Appel, Andrew W.  1987.  Garbage collection can be faster than stack
allocation.  @cite{Information Processing Letters} 25(4): 275-279.
@url{https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~appel/papers/45.ps, –›}

@anchor{Backus 1978}
Backus, John.  1978.  Can programming be liberated from the von Neumann style?
@cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}} 21(8): 613-641.
@url{http://worrydream.com/refs/Backus-CanProgrammingBeLiberated.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Baker (1978)}
Baker, Henry G., Jr.  1978.  List processing in real time on a serial computer.
@cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}} 21(4): 280-293.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/41976, –›}

@anchor{Batali et al. 1982}
Batali, John, Neil Mayle, Howard Shrobe, Gerald Jay Sussman, and Daniel Weise.
1982.  The Scheme-81 architecture---System and chip.  In @cite{Proceedings of
the @abbr{MIT} Conference on Advanced Research in @abbr{VLSI}}, edited by
Paul Penfield, Jr. Dedham, @abbr{MA}: Artech House.

@anchor{Borning (1977)}
Borning, Alan.  1977.  ThingLab---An object-oriented system for building
simulations using constraints. In @cite{Proceedings of the 5th International
Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence}.
@url{http://ijcai.org/Past%20Proceedings/IJCAI-77-VOL1/PDF/085.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Borodin and Munro (1975)}
Borodin, Alan, and Ian Munro.  1975.  @cite{The Computational Complexity of
Algebraic and Numeric Problems}. New York: American Elsevier.

@anchor{Chaitin 1975}
Chaitin, Gregory J.  1975.  Randomness and mathematical proof.
@cite{Scientific American} 232(5): 47-52.
@url{http://www.owlnet.rice.edu/~km9/Randomness%20and%20Mathematical.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Church (1941)}
Church, Alonzo.  1941.  @cite{The Calculi of Lambda-Con@-ver@-sion}.  Princeton,
N.J.: Princeton University Press.

@anchor{Clark (1978)}
Clark, Keith L.  1978.  Negation as failure.  In @cite{Logic and Data Bases}.
New York: Plenum Press, pp. 293-322.
@url{http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~klc/neg.html, –›}

@anchor{Clinger (1982)}
Clinger, William.  1982.  Nondeterministic call by need is neither lazy nor by
name. In @cite{Proceedings of the @abbr{ACM} Symposium on Lisp and
Functional Programming}, pp. 226-234.

@anchor{Clinger and Rees 1991}
Clinger, William, and Jonathan Rees.  1991.  Macros that work.  In
@cite{Proceedings of the 1991 @abbr{ACM} Conference on Principles of
Programming Languages}, pp. 155-162.
@url{http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.464.1336&rep=rep1&type=pdf, –›}

@anchor{Colmerauer et al. 1973}
Colmerauer A., H. Kanoui, R. Pasero, and P. Roussel.  1973.  Un syst@`eme de
communication homme-machine en fran@,{c}ais.  Technical report, Groupe
Intelligence Artificielle, Universit@'e d'Aix Marseille, Luminy.
@url{http://alain.colmerauer.free.fr/alcol/ArchivesPublications/HommeMachineFr/HoMa.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Cormen et al. 1990}
Cormen, Thomas, Charles Leiserson, and Ronald Rivest.  1990. @cite{Introduction
to Algorithms}. Cambridge, @abbr{MA}: @abbr{MIT} Press.

@anchor{Darlington et al. 1982}
Darlington, John, Peter Henderson, and David Turner.  1982.  @cite{Functional
Programming and Its Applications}. New York: Cambridge University Press.

@anchor{Dijkstra 1968a}
Dijkstra, Edsger W. 1968a.  The structure of the ``@abbr{THE}''
multiprogramming system.  @cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}}
11(5): 341-346.
@url{http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/ewd01xx/EWD196.PDF, –›}

@anchor{1968b}
Dijkstra, Edsger W. 1968b.  Cooperating sequential processes.  In
@cite{Programming Languages}, edited by F. Genuys. New York: Academic Press,
pp.  43-112.
@url{http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/ewd01xx/EWD123.PDF, –›}

@anchor{Dinesman 1968}
Dinesman, Howard P.  1968.  @cite{Superior Mathematical Puzzles}.  New York:
Simon and Schuster.

@anchor{deKleer et al. 1977}
deKleer, Johan, Jon Doyle, Guy Steele, and Gerald J. Sussman.  1977.
@abbr{AMORD}: Explicit control of reasoning.  In @cite{Proceedings of the
@abbr{ACM} Symposium on Artificial Intelligence and Programming Languages},
pp.  116-125.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/5750, –›}

@anchor{Doyle (1979)}
Doyle, Jon. 1979. A truth maintenance system. @cite{Artificial Intelligence}
12: 231-272.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/5733, –›}

@anchor{Feigenbaum and Shrobe 1993}
Feigenbaum, Edward, and Howard Shrobe. 1993. The Japanese National Fifth
Generation Project: Introduction, survey, and evaluation.  In @cite{Future
Generation Computer Systems}, vol. 9, pp. 105-117.
@url{https://saltworks.stanford.edu/assets/kv359wz9060.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Feeley (1986)}
Feeley, Marc.  1986.  Deux approches @`a l'implantation du language
Scheme.  Masters thesis, Universit@'e de Montr@'eal.
@url{http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~feeley/papers/FeeleyMSc.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Feeley and Lapalme 1987}
Feeley, Marc and Guy Lapalme.  1987.  Using closures for code generation.
@cite{Journal of Computer Languages} 12(1): 47-66.
@url{http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.90.6978, –›}

Feller, William.  1957.  @cite{An Introduction to Probability Theory and Its
Applications}, volume 1. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

@anchor{Fenichel and Yochelson (1969)}
Fenichel, R., and J. Yochelson.  1969.  A Lisp garbage collector for virtual
memory computer systems.  @cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}}
12(11): 611-612.
@url{https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/hosking/690M/p611-fenichel.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Floyd (1967)}
Floyd, Robert. 1967. Nondeterministic algorithms. @cite{@abbr{JACM}},
14(4): 636-644.
@url{http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.332.36, –›}

@anchor{Forbus and deKleer 1993}
Forbus, Kenneth D., and Johan deKleer.  1993. @cite{Building Problem
Solvers}. Cambridge, @abbr{MA}: @abbr{MIT} Press.

@anchor{Friedman and Wise (1976)}
Friedman, Daniel P., and David S. Wise.  1976.  @abbr{CONS} should not
evaluate its arguments. In @cite{Automata, Languages, and Programming: Third
International Colloquium}, edited by S. Michaelson and R.  Milner, pp. 257-284.
@url{https://www.cs.indiana.edu/cgi-bin/techreports/TRNNN.cgi?trnum=TR44, –›}

@anchor{Friedman et al. 1992}
Friedman, Daniel P., Mitchell Wand, and Christopher T. Haynes. 1992.
@cite{Essentials of Programming Languages}.  Cambridge, @abbr{MA}: @abbr{MIT}
Press/McGraw-Hill.

@anchor{Gabriel 1988}
Gabriel, Richard P. 1988.  The Why of @emph{Y}.  @cite{Lisp Pointers}
2(2): 15-25.
@url{http://www.dreamsongs.com/Files/WhyOfY.pdf, –›}

Goldberg, Adele, and David Robson.  1983.  @cite{Smalltalk-80: The Language and
Its Implementation}. Reading, @abbr{MA}: Addison-Wesley.
@url{http://stephane.ducasse.free.fr/FreeBooks/BlueBook/Bluebook.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Gordon et al. 1979}
Gordon, Michael, Robin Milner, and Christopher Wadsworth.  1979.
@cite{Edinburgh @abbr{LCF}}. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, volume 78. New York:
Springer-Verlag.

@anchor{Gray and Reuter 1993}
Gray, Jim, and Andreas Reuter. 1993. @cite{Transaction Processing: Concepts and
Models}. San Mateo, @abbr{CA}: Morgan-Kaufman.

@anchor{Green 1969}
Green, Cordell.  1969.  Application of theorem proving to problem solving.  In
@cite{Proceedings of the International Joint Conference on Artificial
Intelligence}, pp. 219-240.
@url{http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.81.9820, –›}

@anchor{Green and Raphael (1968)}
Green, Cordell, and Bertram Raphael.  1968.  The use of theorem-proving
techniques in question-answering systems.  In @cite{Proceedings of the
@abbr{ACM} National Conference}, pp. 169-181.
@url{http://www.kestrel.edu/home/people/green/publications/green-raphael.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Griss 1981}
Griss, Martin L.  1981.  Portable Standard Lisp, a brief overview.  Utah
Symbolic Computation Group Operating Note 58, University of Utah.

@anchor{Guttag 1977}
Guttag, John V.  1977.  Abstract data types and the development of data
structures.  @cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}} 20(6): 396-404.
@url{http://www.unc.edu/~stotts/comp723/guttagADT77.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Hamming 1980}
Hamming, Richard W.  1980.  @cite{Coding and Information Theory}.  Englewood
Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall.

@anchor{Hanson 1990}
Hanson, Christopher P.  1990.  Efficient stack allocation for tail-recursive
languages.  In @cite{Proceedings of @abbr{ACM} Conference on Lisp and
Functional Programming}, pp. 106-118.
@url{https://groups.csail.mit.edu/mac/ftpdir/users/cph/links.ps.gz, –›}

@anchor{Hanson 1991}
Hanson, Christopher P.  1991.  A syntactic closures macro facility.  @cite{Lisp
Pointers}, 4(3).
@url{http://groups.csail.mit.edu/mac/ftpdir/scheme-reports/synclo.ps, –›}

@anchor{Hardy 1921}
Hardy, Godfrey H.  1921.  Srinivasa Ramanujan.  @cite{Proceedings of the London
Mathematical Society} @abbr{XIX}(2).

@anchor{Hardy and Wright 1960}
Hardy, Godfrey H., and E. M. Wright.  1960.  @cite{An Introduction to the
Theory of Numbers}.  4th edition.  New York: Oxford University Press.
@url{https://archive.org/details/AnIntroductionToTheTheoryOfNumbers-4thEd-G.h.HardyE.m.Wright, –›}

@anchor{Havender (1968)}
Havender, J. 1968. Avoiding deadlocks in multi-tasking systems. @cite{IBM
Systems Journal} 7(2): 74-84.

@anchor{Hearn 1969}
Hearn, Anthony C.  1969.  Standard Lisp.  Technical report @abbr{AIM}-90,
Artificial Intelligence Project, Stanford University.
@url{http://www.softwarepreservation.org/projects/LISP/stanford/Hearn-StandardLisp-AIM-90.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Henderson 1980}
Henderson, Peter. 1980.  @cite{Functional Programming: Application and
Implementation}. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall.

@anchor{Henderson 1982}
Henderson. Peter. 1982. Functional Geometry. In @cite{Conference Record of the
1982 @abbr{ACM} Symposium on Lisp and Functional Programming}, pp. 179-187.
@url{http://pmh-systems.co.uk/phAcademic/papers/funcgeo.pdf, –›},
@url{http://eprints.soton.ac.uk/257577/1/funcgeo2.pdf, 2002 version –›}

@anchor{Hewitt (1969)}
Hewitt, Carl E.  1969.  @abbr{PLANNER}: A language for proving
theorems in robots.  In @cite{Proceedings of the International Joint
Conference on Artificial Intelligence}, pp. 295-301.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6171, –›}

@anchor{Hewitt (1977)}
Hewitt, Carl E.  1977.  Viewing control structures as patterns of passing
messages.  @cite{Journal of Artificial Intelligence} 8(3): 323-364.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6272, –›}

@anchor{Hoare (1972)}
Hoare, C. A. R. 1972.  Proof of correctness of data representations.
@cite{Acta Informatica} 1(1).

@anchor{Hodges 1983}
Hodges, Andrew. 1983.  @cite{Alan Turing: The Enigma}. New York: Simon and
Schuster.

@anchor{Hofstadter 1979}
Hofstadter, Douglas R.  1979.  @cite{G@"odel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden
Braid}. New York: Basic Books.

@anchor{Hughes 1990}
Hughes, R. J. M.  1990.  Why functional programming matters.  In @cite{Research
Topics in Functional Programming}, edited by David Turner.  Reading, @abbr{MA}:
Addison-Wesley, pp. 17-42.
@url{http://www.cs.kent.ac.uk/people/staff/dat/miranda/whyfp90.pdf, –›}

@anchor{IEEE 1990}
@abbr{IEEE} Std 1178-1990.  1990.  @cite{@abbr{IEEE} Standard for the
Scheme Programming Language}.

@anchor{Ingerman et al. 1960}
Ingerman, Peter, Edgar Irons, Kirk Sattley, and Wallace Feurzeig; assisted by
M. Lind, Herbert Kanner, and Robert Floyd.  1960.  @abbr{THUNKS}: A way of
compiling procedure statements, with some comments on procedure declarations.
Unpublished manuscript.  (Also, private communication from Wallace Feurzeig.)

@anchor{Kaldewaij 1990}
Kaldewaij, Anne. 1990.  @cite{Programming: The Derivation of Algorithms}. New
York: Prentice-Hall.

@anchor{Knuth (1973)}
Knuth, Donald E.  1973.  @cite{Fundamental Algorithms}. Volume 1 of @cite{The
Art of Computer Programming}.  2nd edition. Reading, @abbr{MA}: Addison-Wesley.

@anchor{Knuth 1981}
Knuth, Donald E.  1981.  @cite{Seminumerical Algorithms}. Volume 2 of @cite{The
Art of Computer Programming}.  2nd edition. Reading, @abbr{MA}: Addison-Wesley.

@anchor{Kohlbecker 1986}
Kohlbecker, Eugene Edmund, Jr. 1986.  Syntactic extensions in the programming
language Lisp.  Ph.D. thesis, Indiana University.
@url{http://www.ccs.neu.edu/scheme/pubs/dissertation-kohlbecker.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Konopasek and Jayaraman 1984}
Konopasek, Milos, and Sundaresan Jayaraman.  1984.  @cite{The TK!Solver Book: A
Guide to Problem-Solving in Science, Engineering, Business, and
Education}. Berkeley, @abbr{CA}: Osborne/McGraw-Hill.

@anchor{Kowalski (1973; 1979)}
Kowalski, Robert.  1973.  Predicate logic as a programming language.  Technical
report 70, Department of Computational Logic, School of Artificial
Intelligence, University of Edinburgh.
@url{http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~rak/papers/IFIP%2074.pdf, –›}

Kowalski, Robert.  1979.  @cite{Logic for Problem Solving}. New York:
North-Holland.
@url{http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/%7Erak/papers/LogicForProblemSolving.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Lamport (1978)}
Lamport, Leslie. 1978.  Time, clocks, and the ordering of events in a
distributed system.  @cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}} 21(7): 558-565.
@url{https://amturing.acm.org/p558-lamport.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Lampson et al. 1981}
Lampson, Butler, J. J. Horning, R.  London, J. G. Mitchell, and G. K.  Popek.
1981.  Report on the programming language Euclid.  Technical report, Computer
Systems Research Group, University of Toronto.
@url{http://www.bitsavers.org/pdf/xerox/parc/techReports/CSL-81-12_Report_On_The_Programming_Language_Euclid.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Landin (1965)}
Landin, Peter.  1965.  A correspondence between Algol 60 and Church's lambda
notation: Part I.  @cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}} 8(2): 89-101.

@anchor{Lieberman and Hewitt 1983}
Lieberman, Henry, and Carl E. Hewitt. 1983. A real-time garbage collector based
on the lifetimes of objects. @cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}}
26(6): 419-429.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6335, –›}

@anchor{Liskov and Zilles (1975)}
Liskov, Barbara H., and Stephen N. Zilles.  1975.  Specification techniques for
data abstractions.  @cite{@abbr{IEEE} Transactions on Software Engineering}
1(1): 7-19.
@url{http://csg.csail.mit.edu/CSGArchives/memos/Memo-117.pdf, –›}

@anchor{McAllester (1978; 1980)}
McAllester, David Allen.  1978.  A three-valued truth-maintenance system.  Memo
473, @abbr{MIT} Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6296, –›}

McAllester, David Allen.  1980.  An outlook on truth maintenance.  Memo 551,
@abbr{MIT} Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6327, –›}

@anchor{McCarthy 1960}
McCarthy, John.  1960.  Recursive functions of symbolic expressions and their
computation by machine.  @cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}} 3(4): 184-195.
@url{http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/wadler/papers/papers-we-love/mccarthy-recursive-functions.pdf, –›}

@anchor{McCarthy 1963}
McCarthy, John.  1963.  A basis for a mathematical theory of computation.  In
@cite{Computer Programming and Formal Systems}, edited by P. Braffort and
D. Hirschberg.  North-Holland.
@url{https://ropas.snu.ac.kr/~kwang/4190.310/mccarthy63basis.pdf, –›}

@anchor{McCarthy 1978}
McCarthy, John.  1978.  The history of Lisp.  In @cite{Proceedings of the
@abbr{ACM} @abbr{SIGPLAN} Conference on the History of Programming
Languages}.
@url{http://jmc.stanford.edu/articles/lisp.html, –›}

@anchor{McCarthy et al. 1965}
McCarthy, John, P. W. Abrahams, D. J. Edwards, T. P. Hart, and M. I.  Levin.
1965.  @cite{Lisp 1.5 Programmer's Manual}.  2nd edition.  Cambridge, @abbr{MA}:
@abbr{MIT} Press.
@url{http://www.softwarepreservation.org/projects/LISP/book/LISP%201.5%20Programmers%20Manual.pdf/view, –›}

@anchor{McDermott and Sussman (1972)}
McDermott, Drew, and Gerald Jay Sussman.  1972. Conniver reference manual.
Memo 259, @abbr{MIT} Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6203, –›}

@anchor{Miller 1976}
Miller, Gary L.  1976.  Riemann's Hypothesis and tests for primality.
@cite{Journal of Computer and System Sciences} 13(3): 300-317.
@url{http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~glmiller/Publications/b2hd-Mi76.html, –›}

@anchor{Miller and Rozas 1994}
Miller, James S., and Guillermo J. Rozas. 1994.  Garbage collection is fast,
but a stack is faster.  Memo 1462, @abbr{MIT} Artificial Intelligence
Laboratory.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6622, –›}

@anchor{Moon 1978}
Moon, David.  1978.  MacLisp reference manual, Version 0.  Technical report,
@abbr{MIT} Laboratory for Computer Science.
@url{http://www.softwarepreservation.org/projects/LISP/MIT/Moon-MACLISP_Reference_Manual-Apr_08_1974.pdf/view, –›}

@anchor{Moon and Weinreb 1981}
Moon, David, and Daniel Weinreb.  1981.  Lisp machine manual.  Technical
report, @abbr{MIT} Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
@url{http://www.unlambda.com/lmman/index.html, –›}

@anchor{Morris et al. 1980}
Morris, J. H., Eric Schmidt, and Philip Wadler.  1980.  Experience with an
applicative string processing language.  In @cite{Proceedings of the 7th Annual
@abbr{ACM} @abbr{SIGACT}/@abbr{SIGPLAN} Symposium on the Principles of
Programming Languages}.

@anchor{Phillips 1934}
Phillips, Hubert.  1934. @cite{The Sphinx Problem Book}.  London: Faber and
Faber.

@anchor{Pitman 1983}
Pitman, Kent. 1983. The revised MacLisp Manual (Saturday evening edition).
Technical report 295, @abbr{MIT} Laboratory for Computer Science.
@url{http://maclisp.info/pitmanual, –›}

@anchor{Rabin 1980}
Rabin, Michael O. 1980. Probabilistic algorithm for testing primality.
@cite{Journal of Number Theory} 12: 128-138.

@anchor{Raymond 1993}
Raymond, Eric.  1993. @cite{The New Hacker's Dictionary}. 2nd edition.
Cambridge, @abbr{MA}: @abbr{MIT} Press.
@url{http://www.catb.org/jargon/, –›}

Raynal, Michel. 1986. @cite{Algorithms for Mutual Exclusion}.  Cambridge, @abbr{MA}:
@abbr{MIT} Press.

@anchor{Rees and Adams 1982}
Rees, Jonathan A., and Norman I. Adams IV. 1982.  T: A dialect of Lisp or,
lambda: The ultimate software tool.  In @cite{Conference Record of the 1982
@abbr{ACM} Symposium on Lisp and Functional Programming}, pp.  114-122.
@url{http://people.csail.mit.edu/riastradh/t/adams82t.pdf, –›}

Rees, Jonathan, and William Clinger (eds). 1991.  The revised⁴ report on the
algorithmic language Scheme.  @cite{Lisp Pointers}, 4(3).
@url{http://people.csail.mit.edu/jaffer/r4rs.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Rivest et al. (1977)}
Rivest, Ronald, Adi Shamir, and Leonard Adleman.  1977.  A method for obtaining
digital signatures and public-key cryptosystems. Technical memo @abbr{LCS}/@abbr{TM82},
@abbr{MIT} Laboratory for Computer Science.
@url{http://people.csail.mit.edu/rivest/Rsapaper.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Robinson 1965}
Robinson, J. A. 1965.  A machine-oriented logic based on the resolution
principle.  @cite{Journal of the @abbr{ACM}} 12(1): 23.

@anchor{Robinson 1983}
Robinson, J. A. 1983.  Logic programming---Past, present, and future.
@cite{New Generation Computing} 1: 107-124.

@anchor{Spafford 1989}
Spafford, Eugene H.  1989.  The Internet Worm: Crisis and aftermath.
@cite{Communications of the @abbr{ACM}} 32(6): 678-688.
@url{http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.123.8503&rep=rep1&type=pdf, –›}

@anchor{Steele 1977}
Steele, Guy Lewis, Jr.  1977.  Debunking the ``expensive procedure call'' myth.
In @cite{Proceedings of the National Conference of the @abbr{ACM}},
pp. 153-62.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/5753, –›}

@anchor{Steele 1982}
Steele, Guy Lewis, Jr.  1982.  An overview of Common Lisp.  In
@cite{Proceedings of the @abbr{ACM} Symposium on Lisp and Functional
Programming}, pp. 98-107.

@anchor{Steele 1990}
Steele, Guy Lewis, Jr.  1990.  @cite{Common Lisp: The Language}. 2nd edition.
Digital Press.
@url{http://www.cs.cmu.edu/Groups/AI/html/cltl/cltl2.html, –›}

@anchor{Steele and Sussman 1975}
Steele, Guy Lewis, Jr., and Gerald Jay Sussman.  1975.  Scheme: An interpreter
for the extended lambda calculus.  Memo 349, @abbr{MIT} Artificial
Intelligence Laboratory.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/5794, –›}

@anchor{Steele et al. 1983}
Steele, Guy Lewis, Jr., Donald R. Woods, Raphael A. Finkel, Mark R.  Crispin,
Richard M. Stallman, and Geoffrey S. Goodfellow.  1983.  @cite{The Hacker's
Dictionary}. New York: Harper & Row.
@url{http://www.dourish.com/goodies/jargon.html, –›}

@anchor{Stoy 1977}
Stoy, Joseph E.  1977.  @cite{Denotational Semantics}. Cambridge, @abbr{MA}:
@abbr{MIT} Press.

@anchor{Sussman and Stallman 1975}
Sussman, Gerald Jay, and Richard M. Stallman.  1975.  Heuristic techniques in
computer-aided circuit analysis.  @cite{@abbr{IEEE} Transactions on Circuits
and Systems} @abbr{CAS}-22(11): 857-865.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/5803, –›}

@anchor{Sussman and Steele 1980}
Sussman, Gerald Jay, and Guy Lewis Steele Jr.  1980.  Constraints---A language
for expressing almost-hierachical descriptions.  @cite{AI Journal} 14: 1-39.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6312, –›}

@anchor{Sussman and Wisdom 1992}
Sussman, Gerald Jay, and Jack Wisdom.  1992. Chaotic evolution of the solar
system.  @cite{Science} 257: 256-262.
@url{http://groups.csail.mit.edu/mac/users/wisdom/ss-chaos.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Sussman et al. (1971)}
Sussman, Gerald Jay, Terry Winograd, and Eugene Charniak.  1971.  Microplanner
reference manual.  Memo 203@abbr{A}, @abbr{MIT} Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/6184, –›}

@anchor{Sutherland (1963)}
Sutherland, Ivan E.  1963.  @abbr{SKETCHPAD}: A man-machine graphical
com@-mu@-ni@-cation system.  Technical report 296, @abbr{MIT} Lincoln Laboratory.
@url{https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/techreports/UCAM-CL-TR-574.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Teitelman 1974}
Teitelman, Warren.  1974.  Interlisp reference manual.  Technical report, Xerox
Palo Alto Research Center.
@url{http://www.softwarepreservation.org/projects/LISP/interlisp/Interlisp-Oct_1974.pdf/view, –›}

@anchor{Thatcher et al. 1978}
Thatcher, James W., Eric G. Wagner, and Jesse B. Wright. 1978.  Data type
specification: Parameterization and the power of specification techniques. In
@cite{Conference Record of the Tenth Annual @abbr{ACM} Symposium on Theory
of Computing}, pp. 119-132.

@anchor{Turner 1981}
Turner, David.  1981.  The future of applicative languages.  In
@cite{Proceedings of the 3rd European Conference on Informatics}, Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, volume 123. New York: Springer-Verlag, pp.  334-348.

@anchor{Wand 1980}
Wand, Mitchell.  1980.  Continuation-based program transformation strategies.
@cite{Journal of the @abbr{ACM}} 27(1): 164-180.
@url{http://www.diku.dk/OLD/undervisning/2005e/224/papers/Wand80.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Waters (1979)}
Waters, Richard C.  1979.  A method for analyzing loop programs.
@cite{@abbr{IEEE} Transactions on Software Engineering} 5(3): 237-247.

Winograd, Terry.  1971.  Procedures as a representation for data in a computer
program for understanding natural language.  Technical report @abbr{AI TR}-17,
@abbr{MIT} Artificial Intelligence Laboratory.
@url{http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/7095, –›}

@anchor{Winston 1992}
Winston, Patrick. 1992. @cite{Artificial Intelligence}.  3rd edition.  Reading,
@abbr{MA}: Addison-Wesley.

@anchor{Zabih et al. 1987}
Zabih, Ramin, David McAllester, and David Chapman.  1987.  Non-deterministic
Lisp with dependency-directed backtracking.  @cite{@abbr{AAAI}-87},
pp. 59-64.
@url{http://www.aaai.org/Papers/AAAI/1987/AAAI87-011.pdf, –›}

@anchor{Zippel (1979)}
Zippel, Richard.  1979.  Probabilistic algorithms for sparse polynomials.
Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
@abbr{MIT}.

@anchor{Zippel 1993}
Zippel, Richard.  1993.  @cite{Effective Polynomial Computation}.  Boston, @abbr{MA}:
Kluwer Academic Publishers.

